[WOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> On October 29, 2017, an
exhibit titled "Never Ending
Stories" opened at the
Kunstmuseum in Wolfsburg,
Germany.
The art show attempted to trace
the idea of a loop structure
through all mediums
and all cultures.
This amazing show
gathered art pieces
from the ancient
Egyptian serpent
Ouroboros all the way to
contemporary multimedia
interpretations.
It asks the question--
why was this structure
present in all aspects
of human creativity since
the beginning of time?
Although that answer is
still up for interpretation,
this series begs
the question, why
are circular structures
or loops also dictated
with dragons or serpents, and
why do some of these loops
also depict crosses or
stars shapes in the center?
What is it we desperately keep
trying to remind ourselves of,
and will this conclusion bring
us full circle to the truth?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Around the date 337 AD,
Romans embraced the concept
of Christianity and celebrated
the birth of Jesus on the 25th
of December.
But before Christianity and
even after its influences,
another holiday was
widely celebrated
around the same time, and
it was called Saturnalia.
It fell on the 17th of December
and lasted for seven days.
This festival was dedicated
to the god Saturn,
an agricultural deity that
reigned over the world
in the golden age.
This, according
to legend, is when
humans enjoyed the
bounty of the Earth
without labor in the
state of innocence.
This festival was to represent
the freedom of humanity, where
slaves could be served by
their masters and women
and men could dress and say
whatever they would like.
It was a time of liberation.
Even the statue of Saturn, at
his very own temple in Rome,
was bound with wool
until the festival
when he was liberated for seven
days from the rules of society.
Could these ancient
people have been
carrying on an even
older tradition that
wanted to keep the
knowledge of the golden age
alive so that we wouldn't
forget that, at one time,
life was different on Earth?
And if this is true,
could this tradition
fall in line with the
electric universe theory
that, at one time, we
orbited Saturn bathed
in a red glow of innocence until
the day our new sun arrived
to change the
format of our lives?
>> Proto-Saturn, as we call the
object which we described also
as a brown dwarf star, was
observed by people on Earth
as being a kind of
misty environment.
There was no rain.
The water accumulated
through a kind of mist
because we were
actually orbiting
in the very thin plasma
loaded with material
from the body of Proto-Saturn
so that the sky was largely
obscured.
Also, that light
being red, it was very
conducive to photosynthesis.
All of this
contributes to the idea
that we were living in a
totally different environment,
and the light was from
a different source
than what we receive today.
It all fits with the idea that
this is a very good environment
for life, and that
has significance also
for this planet Mars because
it was in the same environment.
The ancients didn't seem
to be able to distinguish
other objects within this
glowing sphere because
of the material that was
causing this mistiness
in the atmosphere.
So that was the
so-called golden age,
the era of the Garden of Eden
and these kind of references
in creation myths.
And it was regarded as
being a time when you didn't
have to struggle to survive.
After the breakup of the
system, life was hard.
People had to figure
out how to survive,
how to actually
cultivate crops instead
of just harvesting continually.
It was a time when flowers began
to appear-- colored flowers--
because, in the
earlier environment,
flowering plants
were non-existent.
So all of these features
that have been uncovered
by the physical scientists
matches the record passed down
through all of these
very ancient cultures.
>> The ancients themselves often
speculated about a relationship
between Kronos as the planet
Saturn and chronos spelled with
a C as meaning "time."
Saturn, interestingly,
tends to be associated
with enclosing bands, like
he's imagined to be imprisoned,
tied up in bands.
It's interesting to notice
that the ancient mythical
beliefs associated
with the planets
continue down through history
for many thousands of years,
and they definitely influence
the development of sciences
like alchemy, certain
forms of magic, astrology.
>> It's quite possible that,
even after the celebration
of Saturnalia
faded from society,
some people still wanted to
honor the original god of earth
at a golden age through
esoteric worship.
Cults that associate
themselves with Saturn
seem to go against
societal norms.
Ironically, many of
these esoteric signs
used symbols that look similar
to electric interactions
with plasma.
The theory suggests that
these images appeared
once the red glow had
disappeared from our planet
and we were captured
by our current sun.
These symbols would have marked
the beginning of a new era
and the end of an older one.
>> Of the most exciting
discoveries of my lifetime was
when I had a chance to
interact with Tony Peratt,
the Los Alamos physicist.
And we were trying
to figure out--
we know that the
cross in the middle
is a conjunction
of Venus and Mars,
but what are they doing there?
Once we got together
with Tony, he pointed out
that these were
experimentally verified,
a part of plasma
science very well known
called synchrotron radiation.
If you consult Peratt's
published papers
on the subject, he will
show countless illustrations
of this form.
It's really kind of a
dramatic confirmation
of the electricity
and plasma background
of the polar configuration.
Both Tony and I were
impressed by the fact
that one of the most ancient
symbols of the Maya people
displays this very
image, where there's
a four-fold star in
the middle of a circle.
And nestled in between each
one of those stellar rays
is one of these little
circles, so you just
couldn't have a more
beautiful illustration
of physics in action recorded by
these prehistoric sky watchers.
And these four
streamers will show up
in countless places
in myth and symbolism.
So it will be like the four
rivers of the Garden of Eden,
for example.
It will be the four winds,
the four directions.
So ancient symbolism of the
kings around the globe--
the early kings of Samaria--
will always say, I rule from the
center of the four directions.
I control the four winds.
And that is the king
himself assuming
the role of the great god
in Heaven, Mars, who's
sitting there in the
center of these four winds.
Another recurring symbol
that you will find everywhere
in prehistoric context
is the pentagram.
And so, if you look at
ancient Egyptian symbolism,
for example, the symbol
for the underworld
is a circle with a pentagram
inscribed in the center.
And the pentagram
traditionally will
have-- it's a five pointed
star, and it will have
a red orb in the middle of it.
And so, if you go to Mesoamerica
in prehistoric context as well,
you will find the
exact same symbol,
where it's a five-fold star.
And traditionally, the
five radiating streamers
are whitish in color, but there
will be a red central core
to that pentagram
in many instances.
And so we interpret that
as a slight variation
upon the Mars-Venus conjunction,
which frequently displays
either four or eight streamers.
But during the
course of evolution,
it displayed quite a few
different radiating streamers.
And in many
instances, those were
preserved by the ancient
artists for posterity.
>> If this demonstration is
a good example of ancient
symbols, such as the cross,
the pentagram, the ankh,
and the wheel, how do these
plasma interactions possibly
explain our human fascination
with loops, serpents,
and dragons?
>> As Proto-Saturn got
further into the solar system,
it must have reached the point
where that instability became
so great that it actually
ejected a fair proportion
of its core material, which
would be heavy elements.
And it was witnessed
and described.
It's like the cosmic
egg references and also
the encircling
serpent, the snake
biting his tail, the
Ouroboros imagery.
So certainly came an
orbiting object around
in the sky about
this central orb.
>> When Mars began discharging
strongly, Mars appeared,
as it moved up the column,
to enter into battle with
the demons that were
surrounding Venus.
Venus appeared like a wildly
disheveled hairy creature.
She was the archetype
of the Medusa,
the snake-headed goddess.
Because snakes, of
course, are a feature
of the mythology of the
time, serpents, the dragon,
the fire-breathing dragon,
which is an impossible creature,
was something that was
witnessed in the sky
and appeared fiery
simply because plasma
is present in fire.
>> If the dragon was, in fact,
a comet-like object in the sky
that mythologically swallowed
the sun, cause an eclipse,
had feathers, had hair,
those ideas originated with
experiences of watching the sky.
They have nothing
to do with biology.
There is no serpent
on the planet Earth
that breathes fire.
There is no serpent on the
planet Earth that has a beard.
There is no serpent
that has any feathers.
And so the fire-breathing
dragon traces to this comet-like
object in the sky that
circled about the planet Mars
and came to form the cosmos.
And so every motif associated
with the dragon, whether it's
the fire-breathing part or
the guarding of the treasures
or the fight with
the warrior, he
will always trace
to the relationship
between this enclosure
surrounding the planet Mars.
And so these ideas of feathered
serpents and dragons--
the whole mythology
surrounding dragons--
it would be possible to list
100 different motifs surrounding
dragons like surrounding
the golden horde
or protecting the horde--
have no reference
whatsoever to modern biology
or our understanding
of serpents.
It's strictly a
celestial phenomenon
that influenced peoples
all around the globe,
and so those
memories still exist.
Traditions are still
being told today,
many, many thousands
of years later.
>> The electric universe theory
allows you to look at so-called
esoteric knowledge and try
and understand it in terms
of the past history of the Earth
because, on looking at those,
a lot of them have their origins
in the symbology associated
with all of the events of the
breakup of the Proto-Saturnian
system.
>> Thousands of years later,
these same symbols seem to be
incorporated in
our everyday lives.
But the team suggests, not only
do we have symbols ingrained
in our minds, but we are
surrounded by physical evidence
of an electric universe.
On December 18, 2018,
in a remote area
over the Bering Sea,
a giant space rock
exploded above Earth's surface.
The energy it gave off was
more than 10 times the amount
of the atomic bomb
detonated over Hiroshima.
The exploded space rock is
called by NASA a fireball.
NASA recorded this
December fireball
to be the second
most powerful one
to enter Earth's
atmosphere in 30 years.
How does this
fireball in the sky
lend itself to the
electric universe theory,
and where can we see
more evidence daily
that an electric
force connects us all?
>> It's strange when you think
that the electric universe is
manifest around us.
Then, of course,
there's lightning,
which is more
powerful, and we can
begin to understand
just slightly the effect
of planetary thunderbolts
because they create
both the noise, the
light, and the damage
on the surface of the Earth,
particularly powerful lightning
bolts that come from the
very tops of thunderstorms--
the so-called superbolts,
which can blast trenches
in the ground and
have been responsible
for deaths on golf courses
and playing fields.
And there are just simple
things like discharges
with air ionizers and we've
all experienced the small wind
that comes from them.
So electricity can be
responsible for generating
winds, and of
course, in the times
of these disasters in the
past, some of those winds
were overpowering.
They were destructive
on a colossal scale,
and they were given names,
which are associated
with the dragon in
the sky, like typhoon,
and the dragon in
the sky was Typhon.
Then there is the
phenomena that have
been discovered above lightning
storms, which were unsuspected.
Airline pilots reported these
flashes above thunderstorms
long before they were
accepted as being possible.
This is human nature.
We reject the things which don't
fit our map of how things work.
The initial response is
a knee-jerk one, which
says, no, that's impossible.
So airline pilots were actually
afraid to report them for fear
that it would impact
on their employment.
These discharges
above thunderstorms,
which are very fast and
hard to see and film
until high-speed
cameras in recent years,
have been shown to be a series
of filaments that extend
upwards to the ionosphere.
And at the ionosphere,
there are further phenomena
called ELVES, which are
huge circles of light,
which exist briefly.
And they can be up to
80 kilometers across.
They're very big.
All of this is part of
the circuit which connects
the Earth to the solar circuit.
So at the very outer
edges of the Earth,
we have the magnetosphere,
and that connects the poles
along the magnetic field lines
where the current comes in
to form the Aurora.
The Aurora feed electrical
current into the ionosphere,
and the ionosphere has
circulating currents
around the Earth, which effect
the Earth's magnetic field,
and they induce currents
in the Earth itself.
So you can see that the
circuitry of planets
is quite complex.
>> The electric universe theory
suggests that stars are formed
on a circulatory system that
creates a series of stars
in the sky like street
lights or beads.
Where do we see this in
our terrestrial world?
>> It has been observed in
powerful lightning bolts that
sometimes the current pinches
off and forms a string
of beads, and it's
known as bead lightning.
That is one of the
indications that perhaps this
is how stars are formed.
Then we have St. Elmo's fire
that is a glow discharge.
It's another lightning
discharge that is--
St. Elmo's fire is a slow
discharge from a pointed object
or a high point on a
building, a sharp edge.
All of these things combined are
present experience of lightning
and electrical activity
in the Earth's atmosphere.
Part of the difficulty in
having people understand
the electric universe is
that the word "plasma"
is very rarely used.
We live in one of those rare
environments in the universe
where, for most
of our experience,
everything is
electrically neutral.
It's only when we develop
static electricity
and touch a doorknob and get a
shock from the electric charge
passing between us
and the doorknob
that we experience in
electrical environment.
So it requires education
into the behavior of plasma
before the electric universe
can be fully understood.
The electric universe
model suggests
that particles are themselves
made up of smaller particles.
It's a repeated pattern
at different scales.
And all particles,
because they are composed
of both positive
and negative charge,
can be distorted electrically
to form little dipoles.
Electric dipole is where
positive and negative charge
is separated by
a small distance,
and the electric
field that comes
from that is more
like that of a magnet
than it is of a
point charged object.
So it was obvious to
suggest that magnetism,
which is a dipole force,
has an electrical origin.
It was a little more outrageous
to suggest that gravity also
is a dipole force because
it's almost a belief
firmly entrenched that
gravity is only attractive.
But saying that creates
a puzzle because nobody
understands a force
which is only attractive.
It means there is no possibility
of balance in such a system,
so the gravitational model
of the universe is unbalanced
and, as a result, you need
explosions and collisions
and coalition of objects.
Otherwise, there's no means of
separating objects and holding
them in position steadily.
The electric universe,
therefore, said, OK, well,
if this is the case, then
the simplest answer to all
of these problems is
to suggest that it's
the response of all matter,
regardless of the scale,
to an external electric force
to distort into a little dipole.
And in the case of
electric current,
where you've got free electrons
moving either along a wire
or through space in
a Birkeland current,
the result of putting a force
in one direction on an object,
which is an orbiting
system, is to speed up
the orbiting object in
one half of the orbit
and slow it down on the other.
The result of that
is a transverse--
that is, an ellipse at right
angles to the electric force.
That's the simple explanation
of the magnetic force
is the result of the dipole
distortion of electrons
subject to an electric
force in a current.
Magnetism is not
a separate force.
It is an electric force.
We apply the same principle
to the particles within
the nucleus of an
atom-- that is,
the particles within the
proton and the neutron--
and say they are the same
structure on a smaller scale.
>> If we look at this
understanding of the planetary
system on a smaller scale,
how does this theory relate
to our biological systems?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If you've got a magnet
with one pole on the outside
and another one on the inside,
the two opposite poles are
separated, and inside that
body is the same force which is
repelling everything.
And this raises the
issue about what
is the center of a star
or a planet actually like?
And the electric universe
raises the possibility
that there may be
nothing inside.
We are a shell of material.
Because the electric
universe deals
with both ends of the scales
in our reality and both
the particle physics on up
through the galactic scale,
the question arises,
what significance
does this have for the
human condition, biology,
and living systems?
It has profound
significance because it
shows that the electric
force is the binding force.
It is the controlling
force in the universe,
and it operates at every
level, from the particle
up to the galactic.
And in the case of
biological systems,
the complexity of the
biological systems
are controlled by signaling
between similar resonance
systems, which
means, for instance,
certain molecules
of a particular kind
will all resonate.
And because the signal
is the same as gravity,
the direct electric forces
cannot be shielded--
it will pass
through all matter--
it means that the entire
body is a coherent system.
And it also is the
control system,
if you like, for all of
the trillions of reactions
that are going on in the
body in any the instant.
It also is responsible for the
mind-body connection and some
of the strange phenomena that we
find in the natural therapies,
where the heart seems
to hold memories--
this kind of thing.
And consciousness
can be understood
as not entirely held
within the gray matter
but extends beyond the
body so we can then
begin to understand the
significance of auras,
perhaps, energy centers
in the body, the fact
that certain organs seem to have
far more significance than just
their pure biological
biochemistry and the sort
of machine model of
our living systems.
The electric universe,
I think, provides
the substrate, the basis, for
understanding life itself.
>> If this is true, what is the
difference between the electric
force and the subtle force?
>> I think that it's good
to make a distinction here.
When we talk about what's
working at a particular scale,
at our scale, the signaling
is the same as gravity.
It's a subtle force.
It's one that no one has
been able to measure.
And yet, we seem to
know that it's there.
The phenomena that
have been discovered
and the effects of
interference with that field
have been tested, and
it's known that it works.
The problem is
that there has been
no understanding of the physical
nature of what's going on.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So the biological
field is a subtle thing.
It's not like
plasma interactions,
which are electrical.
The electric force is far
more powerful than gravity,
and so electromagnetism
is far more
powerful than the signaling
system used in biology.
However, it does raise the
issue that the actual activity
inside the cells in
the body is electrical.
So even though this
subtle signaling
can be a control
mechanism, it is
possible to understand that
electromagnetic radiation can
have effects that
are not expected
and not understood in
the conventional sense.
>> Could the electric universe
theory explain the universe
outside of us as well as
the universities within?
Could the symbols created
by electric interaction
with plasma be symbols
of how our body responds
to energy in a subtle way?
>> All of this relates to
the electric universe theory
in that everything is
connected by this subtle force,
this dipole electric force,
which is like a daisy chain
between us and each other
and the Earth and the rest
of the universe.
It is a means of
beginning to understand
the origins of consciousness
and also memory.
It seems that the brain
itself is like a receiver.
Bruce Lipton put it in this way.
He said, you are like
a television receiver--
that is, the physical you.
He said, if you die, then
the television station
hasn't stopped broadcasting.
It's just that you are no
longer receiving and responding
to that signal.
But he said we
are all, it seems,
tuned to maybe the same
station, and as a result,
we are programmed almost
from the point of conception.
And based on the DNA, the
template already exists.
The instructions
come from outside,
and all that the DNA does
is respond to instructions.
>> If this is true, how
do we change our DNA,
our perspective, and our vision
for the future of humanity
by understanding the
electric universe theory?
>> I think, understanding the
connectedness of all things
and not the disconnectedness
of the present theory,
then we would feel
a part of something,
a collective part of something
instead of feeling adversarial
and disconnected and
pointless, hopeless.
I think there's a lot
of hopelessness today,
a lot of depression and
aimlessness in life.
And that, I think, stems
from the beliefs that
have been encouraged
over the ages,
that we're all to be
judged and, in the end,
those who believe the
right things will be OK
and those who didn't will
be condemned to doomsday.
All of this is archaic.
It's nonsense.
The electric universe
says everything
is connected in a very intimate
way, which is not understood
by biologists or anyone.
When you understand
the connectedness,
you realize that we're all in
this together and that even
people who are disabled and seem
to be unable to function are
still connected to the
conscious universe,
that they've been somehow
disabled in a way that they
cannot fulfill the dream that
they came to the Earth with.
I think this will
change our responses
to all sorts of things which
confront us at present.
We have to look at all of
this as part of a pattern.
Life itself, I
think, is episodic.
The human body is
just a representation
which lasts a certain time.
When it's gone, who
you are is not lost.
The universe remembers, and it
has phenomenal memory capacity.
That gives us a way of
looking at life, I think,
which removes the differences.
At present, the differences are
accentuated to such an extent
that we believe that those
who don't fit our beliefs--
it's quite OK to
annihilate them.
And we see this happening all
the time around the world.
Now, the electric
universe allows
us to think of new
ways of behaving.
It allows us to think
of collective behavior
and our deep connection
with the Earth.
We have to talk about ourselves
as earthlings, children
of the Earth, instead of
talking about, oh, well,
if we mess up this planet,
we can go and colonize
another one.
We will not be earthlings
any longer if we do so,
and we do not know the
consequences of such actions.
It's all science fiction
to talk about such things,
and the science
is archaic that is
used to make these predictions.
The electric
universe provides us
with ways of considering
how to produce energy,
how to actually live our
lives and treat ourselves.
Using the industrial processes
based on business principles
is slowly destroying us.
Our medical systems are
based on a biology which
has no idea what life is, and
yet the medical profession
are prepared to tell us
when we're going to die.
They don't know what death is.
People are afraid of
death because it seems
to be the end of everything.
It's not.
I see life as a continuum.
All of these things
only make sense
if you have a science
underpinning it,
which allows for
this connectedness
and this resonance
and this signaling
between people and systems,
the Earth and us, us
and the universe.
>> If the electric universe
does indeed paint a different
picture of our existence,
what do the symbols around you
depict about your perspective?
And when you look to the sky,
how will that one fallen star
connect you to the
force within us all?